# Digital Trust Infrastructure for Discovery and Validation

## Project Introduction

The Digital TRUST Infrastructure for Discovery and Validation (DigiTRUST) project, sponsored by and hosted at the United Nation Development Programme (UNDP), is intended to develop and provide a suite of tools to enable the discovery and validation of trusted services by leveraging existing Internet infrastructures of the Domain Name System (DNS) and its security extensions. 

Implementers of DigiTRUST can leverage the tools to create purpose-sized networks or ecosystems of trusted digital services operated by all types of entities. As a result, users will be able to easily discover services in need, access relevant service information through trusted endpoints and make informed decisions about whether to trust and use a service. Most importantly, DigiTRUST can enable all of this at a massive scale that today’s fully centralized model is not able to. Thanks to the decentralized and cloud-agnostic architecture DigiTRUST adopts, any participating service of an implemented network or ecosystem on DigiTRUST will be able to maintain the sovereignty and control of their own systems and data. Such an approach provides the necessary trust infrastructure that can help thwart the ubiquitous phishing attempts mimicking online service organizations, such as government institutions, health providers and banks.

DigiTRUST was initially started at the Linux Foundation in 2021 as the Global COVID-19 Certificate Network (GCCN) to address the trust interoperability among COVID certificate networks or ecosystems. The project transitioned to UNDP in Summer 2022 with an added focus on developing governance and policy guidelines for the technical infrastructure. Since the transition, the UNDP team has been working to support the World Health Organization (WHO) to implement the G20 pilot for COVID Certificates while working to broaden the scope of the project to support digital health services and beyond. As we release the draft technical specification for public review, our team is working on an open source reference implementation for the specification, a governance and policy guideline for implementing DigiTRUST, and delivering GCCN as the first pilot and real-world use case for DigiTRUST. 

